openmdao/docs/features/core_features/working_with_derivatives/simul_derivs.rst, before:

.. _feature_simul_coloring:

********************************************
Simultaneous Coloring For Separable Problems
********************************************

When OpenMDAO solves for total derivatives, it loops over either design variables in 'fwd' mode
or responses in 'rev' mode.  For each of those variables, it performs a linear solve for each
member of that variable, so for a scalar variable there would be only a single linear solve, and
there would be *N* solves for an array variable of size *N*.


Certain problems have a special kind of sparsity structure in the total derivative Jacobian that
allows OpenMDAO to solve for multiple derivatives simultaneously. This results in far fewer linear
solves and much-improved performance.
These problems are said to have separable variables.
The concept of separability is explained in the :ref:`Theory Manual<theory_separable_variables>`.

.. note::

   While it is possible for problems to exist where simultaneous reverse solves would be possible,
   OpenMDAO does not currently support simultaneous derivatives in reverse mode.


Simultaneous derivative coloring in OpenMDAO can be performed either statically or dynamically.


Dynamic Coloring
================

Dynamic coloring computes the derivative colors at runtime, shortly after the driver begins the
optimization.  This has the advantage of simplicity and robustness to changes in the model, but
adds the cost of the coloring computation to the run time of the optimization.  For a typical
optimization, however, this cost will be small.  Activating dynamic coloring is simple.  Just
set the `dynamic_simul_derivs` option on the driver.  For example:

.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.options['dynamic_simul_derivs'] = True


If you want to change the number of compute_totals calls that the coloring algorithm uses to
compute the jacobian sparsity (default is 3), you can set the `dynamic_simul_derivs_repeats` option.
For example:

.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.options['dynamic_simul_derivs_repeats'] = 2



Static Coloring
===============

To get rid of the runtime cost of computing the coloring, you can precompute it and tell the
driver what coloring to use by calling the :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` method on your
Driver.


.. automethod:: openmdao.core.driver.Driver.set_simul_deriv_color
    :noindex:


While this has the advantage of removing the runtime cost of computing the coloring,
it should be used with care, because any changes in the model, design variables, or responses
can make the existing coloring invalid.  If *anything* about the optimization changes, it's recommended
to always regenerate the coloring before re-running the optimization.


Consider a simple problem where we have a design variable *x* of size 10 and a constraint *y* of
size 5.  Assume that each total derivative of *y* is affected only by 2 entries of x, let's say
for derivative *i* of *y*, it is affected by entries 2*i and 2*i+1 of *x*.  In that case, the
coloring we would pass to :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` would look like this:


.. code-block:: python

    color_info = (
        # first our list of columns grouped by color, with the first list containing any
        # columns that are not colored (we don't have any of those in this case).
        [
            [],   # non-colored columns
            [0, 2, 4, 6, 8],   # color 0
            [1, 3, 5, 7, 9],   # color 1
        ],

        # next, for each column we provide either a list of nonzero row indices if the
        # column is colored, or None if the column is not colored (we don't have any of those here).
        [
            [0],
            [0],
            [1],
            [1],
            [2],
            [2],
            [3],
            [3],
            [4],
            [4],
        ],

        # next we could specify our sparsity, which we need if we're using the pyOptSparseDriver
        # as our Driver.  If our driver doesn't need sparsity, we could just replace the dict
        # shown below with None.
        {
            # dictionary for our response variable, y
            'y': {
                # dictionary for our design variable, x
                'x': (
                    [0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4],   # sparse row indices
                    [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9],   # sparse column indices
                    [5, 10]  # shape
                )
            }
        }
    )

    # we would activate simultaneous derivatives by calling this on our driver
    prob.driver.set_simul_deriv_color(color_info)


You can see a more complete example of setting up an optimization with
simultaneous derivatives in the :ref:`Simple Optimization using Simultaneous Derivatives <simul_deriv_example>`
example.


.. _feature_automatic_coloring:

Automatic Generation of Coloring
################################
Although you *can* compute the coloring manually if you know enough information about your problem,
doing so can be challenging. Also, even small changes to your model,
e.g., adding new constraints or changing the sparsity of a sub-component, can change the
coloring of your model. So care must be taken to keep the coloring up to date when
you change your model.

To streamline the process, OpenMDAO provides an automatic coloring algorithm that uses the
sparsity pattern given by the :ref:`declare_partials <feature_sparse_partials>` calls from all of the components in your model.
So if you're not :ref:`specifying the sparsity of the partial derivatives<feature_sparse_partials>`
of your components, then it won't be possible to find an automatic coloring
for your model.

The *color_info* data structure can be generated automatically using the following command:

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name>


The data structure will be written to the console and can be cut and pasted into your script
file and passed into the :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` function.  For example, if we were to run
it on the example shown :ref:`here <simul_deriv_example>`, the output written to the console
would look like this:


.. code-block:: none

    Using tolerance: 1e-20
    Most common number of zero entries (400 of 462) repeated 11 times out of 11 tolerances tested.

    Total jacobian shape: (22, 21)

    1 uncolored columns
    5 columns in color 1
    5 columns in color 2
    5 columns in color 3
    5 columns in color 4

    ########### BEGIN COLORING DATA ################
    [[
       [20],   # uncolored columns
       [0, 2, 4, 6, 8],   # color 1
       [1, 3, 5, 7, 9],   # color 2
       [10, 12, 14, 16, 18],   # color 3
       [11, 13, 15, 17, 19],   # color 4
    ],
    [
       [1, 11, 16, 21],   # column 0
       [2, 16],   # column 1
       [3, 12, 17],   # column 2
       [4, 17],   # column 3
       [5, 13, 18],   # column 4
       [6, 18],   # column 5
       [7, 14, 19],   # column 6
       [8, 19],   # column 7
       [9, 15, 20],   # column 8
       [10, 20],   # column 9
       [1, 11, 16],   # column 10
       [2, 16],   # column 11
       [3, 12, 17],   # column 12
       [4, 17],   # column 13
       [5, 13, 18],   # column 14
       [6, 18],   # column 15
       [7, 14, 19],   # column 16
       [8, 19],   # column 17
       [9, 15, 20],   # column 18
       [10, 20],   # column 19
       None,   # column 20
    ],
    {
    "circle.area": {
       "indeps.x": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[0], [0], [1, 1]]
    },
    "r_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [10, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [10, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [10, 1]]
    },
    "theta_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4], [0, 2, 4, 6, 8], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4], [0, 2, 4, 6, 8], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [5, 1]]
    },
    "delta_theta_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [5, 1]]
    },
    "l_conx.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0], [0], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [1, 1]]
    }
    }]
    ########### END COLORING DATA ############


    Total colors vs. total size: 5 vs 21  (76.2% improvement)


Note that only the section between the `BEGIN COLORING DATA` and `END COLORING DATA` lines should
be cut and pasted into your script.

There is additional information printed out that can sometimes be useful.  The tolerance that was
actually used to determine whether an entry in the total jacobian is considered to be zero or not
is displayed, along with the number of zero entries found in this case, and how many times that
number of zero entries occurred when sweeping over different tolerances between +- 5 orders of
magnitude around the given tolerance.  If no tolerance is given, the default is 1e-15.  If the
number of occurrences is only 1 or 2, then it's likely that there is a problem, and you should
increase the number of total derivative computations that the algorithm uses to compute the
sparsity pattern.  You can do that with the *-n* option.  The following, for example, will
perform the total derivative computation *5* times.

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5


Note that when multiple total jacobian computations are performed, we take the absolute values
of each jacobian and add them all together, then divide by the largest value.

If repeating the total derivative computation multiple times doesn't work, try changing the
tolerance using the *-t* option as follows:

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5 -t 1e-10


Be careful when setting the tolerance, however, because if you make it too large then you may be
zeroing out Jacobian entries that should not be ignored and your optimization may not converge.


If you want to examine the sparsity structure of your total jacobian, you can use the *-j*
option as follows:


.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5 -t 1e-10 -j


Which, along with the other output shown above, will display a visualization of the sparsity
structure with rows and columns labelled with the response and design variable names, respectively.

.. code-block:: none

    ....................x 0  circle.area
    x.........x.........x 1  r_con.g
    .x.........x........x 2  r_con.g
    ..x.........x.......x 3  r_con.g
    ...x.........x......x 4  r_con.g
    ....x.........x.....x 5  r_con.g
    .....x.........x....x 6  r_con.g
    ......x.........x...x 7  r_con.g
    .......x.........x..x 8  r_con.g
    ........x.........x.x 9  r_con.g
    .........x.........xx 10  r_con.g
    x.........x.......... 11  theta_con.g
    ..x.........x........ 12  theta_con.g
    ....x.........x...... 13  theta_con.g
    ......x.........x.... 14  theta_con.g
    ........x.........x.. 15  theta_con.g
    xx........xx......... 16  delta_theta_con.g
    ..xx........xx....... 17  delta_theta_con.g
    ....xx........xx..... 18  delta_theta_con.g
    ......xx........xx... 19  delta_theta_con.g
    ........xx........xx. 20  delta_theta_con.g
    x.................... 21  l_conx.g
    |indeps.x
              |indeps.y
                        |indeps.r


Note that the design variables are displayed along the bottom of the matrix, with a pipe symbol (|)
that lines up with the starting column for that variable.


As total jacobians get larger, it may not be desirable to cut and paste the coloring result
manually.  In this case, using the `-o` command line option will output the coloring to a file
as follows:


.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -o my_coloring.json


The coloring will be written in json format to the given file and can be loaded using the
*set_simul_deriv_color* function like this:


.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.set_simul_deriv_color('my_coloring.json')


If you run *openmdao simul_coloring* and it turns out there is no simultaneous coloring available,
or that you don't gain very much by coloring, don't be surprised.
Problems that have the necessary total Jacobian sparsity to allow simultaneous derivatives are
relatively uncommon.


Checking that it works
######################

After activating simultaneous derivatives, you should check your total
derivatives using the :ref:`check_totals <check-total-derivatives>` function.
If you provided a manually-computed coloring, you need to be sure it was correct.
If you used the automatic coloring, the algorithm that we use still has a small chance of
computing an incorrect coloring due to the possibility that the total Jacobian being analyzed
by the algorithm contained one or more zero values that are only incidentally zero.
Using :code:`check_totals` is the way to be sure that something hasn't
gone wrong.

If you used the automatic coloring algorithm, and you find that :code:`check_totals`
is reporting incorrect total derivatives, then you should try using the *-n* and *-t* options
mentioned earlier until you get the correct total derivatives.

Commit message:

added writing of coloring.json file to dynamic coloring

openmdao/docs/features/core_features/working_with_derivatives/simul_derivs.rst, after:

.. _feature_simul_coloring:

********************************************
Simultaneous Coloring For Separable Problems
********************************************

When OpenMDAO solves for total derivatives, it loops over either design variables in 'fwd' mode
or responses in 'rev' mode.  For each of those variables, it performs a linear solve for each
member of that variable, so for a scalar variable there would be only a single linear solve, and
there would be *N* solves for an array variable of size *N*.


Certain problems have a special kind of sparsity structure in the total derivative Jacobian that
allows OpenMDAO to solve for multiple derivatives simultaneously. This results in far fewer linear
solves and much-improved performance.
These problems are said to have separable variables.
The concept of separability is explained in the :ref:`Theory Manual<theory_separable_variables>`.

.. note::

   While it is possible for problems to exist where simultaneous reverse solves would be possible,
   OpenMDAO does not currently support simultaneous derivatives in reverse mode.


Simultaneous derivative coloring in OpenMDAO can be performed either statically or dynamically.


Dynamic Coloring
================

Dynamic coloring computes the derivative colors at runtime, shortly after the driver begins the
optimization.  This has the advantage of simplicity and robustness to changes in the model, but
adds the cost of the coloring computation to the run time of the optimization.  For a typical
optimization, however, this cost will be small.  Activating dynamic coloring is simple.  Just
set the `dynamic_simul_derivs` option on the driver.  For example:

.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.options['dynamic_simul_derivs'] = True


If you want to change the number of compute_totals calls that the coloring algorithm uses to
compute the jacobian sparsity (default is 3), you can set the `dynamic_simul_derivs_repeats` option.
For example:

.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.options['dynamic_simul_derivs_repeats'] = 2


Whenever a dynamic coloring is computed, the coloring is written to a file called *coloring.json*
for later inspection.


Static Coloring
===============

To get rid of the runtime cost of computing the coloring, you can precompute it and tell the
driver what coloring to use by calling the :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` method on your
Driver.


.. automethod:: openmdao.core.driver.Driver.set_simul_deriv_color
    :noindex:


While this has the advantage of removing the runtime cost of computing the coloring,
it should be used with care, because any changes in the model, design variables, or responses
can make the existing coloring invalid.  If *anything* about the optimization changes, it's recommended
to always regenerate the coloring before re-running the optimization.


Consider a simple problem where we have a design variable *x* of size 10 and a constraint *y* of
size 5.  Assume that each total derivative of *y* is affected only by 2 entries of x, let's say
for derivative *i* of *y*, it is affected by entries 2*i and 2*i+1 of *x*.  In that case, the
coloring we would pass to :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` would look like this:


.. code-block:: python

    color_info = (
        # first our list of columns grouped by color, with the first list containing any
        # columns that are not colored (we don't have any of those in this case).
        [
            [],   # non-colored columns
            [0, 2, 4, 6, 8],   # color 0
            [1, 3, 5, 7, 9],   # color 1
        ],

        # next, for each column we provide either a list of nonzero row indices if the
        # column is colored, or None if the column is not colored (we don't have any of those here).
        [
            [0],
            [0],
            [1],
            [1],
            [2],
            [2],
            [3],
            [3],
            [4],
            [4],
        ],

        # next we could specify our sparsity, which we need if we're using the pyOptSparseDriver
        # as our Driver.  If our driver doesn't need sparsity, we could just replace the dict
        # shown below with None.
        {
            # dictionary for our response variable, y
            'y': {
                # dictionary for our design variable, x
                'x': (
                    [0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4],   # sparse row indices
                    [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9],   # sparse column indices
                    [5, 10]  # shape
                )
            }
        }
    )

    # we would activate simultaneous derivatives by calling this on our driver
    prob.driver.set_simul_deriv_color(color_info)


You can see a more complete example of setting up an optimization with
simultaneous derivatives in the :ref:`Simple Optimization using Simultaneous Derivatives <simul_deriv_example>`
example.


.. _feature_automatic_coloring:

Automatic Generation of Coloring
################################
Although you *can* compute the coloring manually if you know enough information about your problem,
doing so can be challenging. Also, even small changes to your model,
e.g., adding new constraints or changing the sparsity of a sub-component, can change the
coloring of your model. So care must be taken to keep the coloring up to date when
you change your model.

To streamline the process, OpenMDAO provides an automatic coloring algorithm that uses the
sparsity pattern given by the :ref:`declare_partials <feature_sparse_partials>` calls from all of the components in your model.
So if you're not :ref:`specifying the sparsity of the partial derivatives<feature_sparse_partials>`
of your components, then it won't be possible to find an automatic coloring
for your model.

The *color_info* data structure can be generated automatically using the following command:

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name>


The data structure will be written to the console and can be cut and pasted into your script
file and passed into the :code:`set_simul_deriv_color` function.  For example, if we were to run
it on the example shown :ref:`here <simul_deriv_example>`, the output written to the console
would look like this:


.. code-block:: none

    Using tolerance: 1e-20
    Most common number of zero entries (400 of 462) repeated 11 times out of 11 tolerances tested.

    Total jacobian shape: (22, 21)

    1 uncolored columns
    5 columns in color 1
    5 columns in color 2
    5 columns in color 3
    5 columns in color 4

    ########### BEGIN COLORING DATA ################
    [[
       [20],   # uncolored columns
       [0, 2, 4, 6, 8],   # color 1
       [1, 3, 5, 7, 9],   # color 2
       [10, 12, 14, 16, 18],   # color 3
       [11, 13, 15, 17, 19],   # color 4
    ],
    [
       [1, 11, 16, 21],   # column 0
       [2, 16],   # column 1
       [3, 12, 17],   # column 2
       [4, 17],   # column 3
       [5, 13, 18],   # column 4
       [6, 18],   # column 5
       [7, 14, 19],   # column 6
       [8, 19],   # column 7
       [9, 15, 20],   # column 8
       [10, 20],   # column 9
       [1, 11, 16],   # column 10
       [2, 16],   # column 11
       [3, 12, 17],   # column 12
       [4, 17],   # column 13
       [5, 13, 18],   # column 14
       [6, 18],   # column 15
       [7, 14, 19],   # column 16
       [8, 19],   # column 17
       [9, 15, 20],   # column 18
       [10, 20],   # column 19
       None,   # column 20
    ],
    {
    "circle.area": {
       "indeps.x": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[0], [0], [1, 1]]
    },
    "r_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [10, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [10, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0], [10, 1]]
    },
    "theta_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4], [0, 2, 4, 6, 8], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 1, 2, 3, 4], [0, 2, 4, 6, 8], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [5, 1]]
    },
    "delta_theta_con.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4], [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9], [5, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [5, 1]]
    },
    "l_conx.g": {
       "indeps.x": [[0], [0], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.y": [[], [], [1, 10]],
       "indeps.r": [[], [], [1, 1]]
    }
    }]
    ########### END COLORING DATA ############


    Total colors vs. total size: 5 vs 21  (76.2% improvement)


Note that only the section between the `BEGIN COLORING DATA` and `END COLORING DATA` lines should
be cut and pasted into your script.

There is additional information printed out that can sometimes be useful.  The tolerance that was
actually used to determine whether an entry in the total jacobian is considered to be zero or not
is displayed, along with the number of zero entries found in this case, and how many times that
number of zero entries occurred when sweeping over different tolerances between +- 5 orders of
magnitude around the given tolerance.  If no tolerance is given, the default is 1e-15.  If the
number of occurrences is only 1 or 2, then it's likely that there is a problem, and you should
increase the number of total derivative computations that the algorithm uses to compute the
sparsity pattern.  You can do that with the *-n* option.  The following, for example, will
perform the total derivative computation *5* times.

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5


Note that when multiple total jacobian computations are performed, we take the absolute values
of each jacobian and add them all together, then divide by the largest value.

If repeating the total derivative computation multiple times doesn't work, try changing the
tolerance using the *-t* option as follows:

.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5 -t 1e-10


Be careful when setting the tolerance, however, because if you make it too large then you may be
zeroing out Jacobian entries that should not be ignored and your optimization may not converge.


If you want to examine the sparsity structure of your total jacobian, you can use the *-j*
option as follows:


.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -n 5 -t 1e-10 -j


Which, along with the other output shown above, will display a visualization of the sparsity
structure with rows and columns labelled with the response and design variable names, respectively.

.. code-block:: none

    ....................x 0  circle.area
    x.........x.........x 1  r_con.g
    .x.........x........x 2  r_con.g
    ..x.........x.......x 3  r_con.g
    ...x.........x......x 4  r_con.g
    ....x.........x.....x 5  r_con.g
    .....x.........x....x 6  r_con.g
    ......x.........x...x 7  r_con.g
    .......x.........x..x 8  r_con.g
    ........x.........x.x 9  r_con.g
    .........x.........xx 10  r_con.g
    x.........x.......... 11  theta_con.g
    ..x.........x........ 12  theta_con.g
    ....x.........x...... 13  theta_con.g
    ......x.........x.... 14  theta_con.g
    ........x.........x.. 15  theta_con.g
    xx........xx......... 16  delta_theta_con.g
    ..xx........xx....... 17  delta_theta_con.g
    ....xx........xx..... 18  delta_theta_con.g
    ......xx........xx... 19  delta_theta_con.g
    ........xx........xx. 20  delta_theta_con.g
    x.................... 21  l_conx.g
    |indeps.x
              |indeps.y
                        |indeps.r


Note that the design variables are displayed along the bottom of the matrix, with a pipe symbol (|)
that lines up with the starting column for that variable.


As total jacobians get larger, it may not be desirable to cut and paste the coloring result
manually.  In this case, using the `-o` command line option will output the coloring to a file
as follows:


.. code-block:: none

    openmdao simul_coloring <your_script_name> -o my_coloring.json


The coloring will be written in json format to the given file and can be loaded using the
*set_simul_deriv_color* function like this:


.. code-block:: python

    prob.driver.set_simul_deriv_color('my_coloring.json')


If you run *openmdao simul_coloring* and it turns out there is no simultaneous coloring available,
or that you don't gain very much by coloring, don't be surprised.
Problems that have the necessary total Jacobian sparsity to allow simultaneous derivatives are
relatively uncommon.


Checking that it works
######################

After activating simultaneous derivatives, you should check your total
derivatives using the :ref:`check_totals <check-total-derivatives>` function.
If you provided a manually-computed coloring, you need to be sure it was correct.
If you used the automatic coloring, the algorithm that we use still has a small chance of
computing an incorrect coloring due to the possibility that the total Jacobian being analyzed
by the algorithm contained one or more zero values that are only incidentally zero.
Using :code:`check_totals` is the way to be sure that something hasn't
gone wrong.

If you used the automatic coloring algorithm, and you find that :code:`check_totals`
is reporting incorrect total derivatives, then you should try using the *-n* and *-t* options
mentioned earlier until you get the correct total derivatives.
