openmdao/docs/features/debugging/listing_variables.rst, before:

.. _listing-variables:

*****************
Listing Variables
*****************

When working with a model, it may sometimes be helpful to examine the input and
output variables. Several methods are provided for this purpose.

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.system.System.list_inputs
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.system.System.list_outputs
    :noindex:



Example
-------

In the following example, we create a model consisting of two instances of
:code:`ImplicitComponent` and an :code:`IndepVarComp`.

The implicit components are both instances of :code:`QuadraticComp`, defined
as shown here.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.QuadraticComp



These two components are placed in a :code:`Group` with inputs provided by
the :code:`IndepVarComp`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.setUp
    :layout: interleave


Usage
-----

*List Inputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_inputs()` method on a :code:`System` will display all the inputs
in execution order with their values. By default, the variable name and variable value
are displayed. Also by default, the variables are displayed as part of the System hierarchy.
Finally, the default is to display this information to :code:`'stdout'`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_inputs
    :layout: interleave


.. _list_outputs:

*List Outputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_outputs()` method will display all the outputs in execution order.
There are many options to this method, which we will explore below. For this example,
we will only display the value in addition to the name of the output variable.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_outputs
    :layout: interleave


*List Implicit or Explicit Outputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that explicit and implicit outputs are listed separately.  If you are
only interested in seeing one or the other, you can exclude the ones you do
not wish to see via the :code:`implicit` and :code:`explicit` arguments.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_explicit_outputs
    :layout: interleave

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_implicit_outputs
    :layout: interleave


*Get List via Return Value*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Both of these methods also return the information in the form of a list.
You can disable the display of the information by setting the argument :code:`out_stream`
to :code:`None` and then access the data instead via the return value.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_return_value
    :layout: interleave


*List Names Only*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you just need the names of the variables, you can disable the
display of the values by setting the optional argument, :code:`values`, to `False`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_for_docs_list_no_values
    :layout: interleave

*List Names and Promoted Name*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want the names of the variables and their promoted name within the model,
you can enable the display of promoted names by setting the optional argument,
:code:`prom_name`, to `True`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_prom_names
    :layout: interleave

*List Variables Filtered by Tags*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you add inputs and outputs to components, you can optionally set tags on the variables. These tags can then be
used to filter what variables are printed and returned by the :code:`System.list_inputs` and :code:`System.list_outputs`
methods. Each of those methods has an optional argument :code:`tags` for that purpose. Here is a simple example to show
you how this works. Notice that if you only have one tag, you can set the argument :code:`tags` to a string. If you have
more than one tag, you use a list of strings.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_expl_comp.ExplCompTestCase.test_feature_simple_var_tags
    :layout: interleave

This example showed how to add tags when using the :code:`add_input` and :code:`add_output` methods. You can also
add tags to :code:`IndepVarComp` and :code:`ExecComp` Components using code like this:

::

    comp = IndepVarComp('indep_var', tags='tag1')

::

    ec = om.ExecComp('y=x+z+1.',
                      x={'value': 1.0, 'units': 'm', 'tags': 'tagx'},
                      y={'units': 'm', 'tags': ['tagy','tagm']},
                      z={'value': 2.0, 'tags': 'tagz'},
                      ))

Note that outputs of :code:`IndepVarComp` are always tagged with :code:`indep_var_comp`.

*List Residuals Above a Tolerance*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In some cases, it might be convenient to only list variables whose residuals above a given tolerance. The
:code:`System.list_outputs` method provides an optional argument, :code:`residuals_tol` for this purpose.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_residuals_with_tol
    :layout: interleave


*List Additional Variable Metadata*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_outputs()` method has many options to also display units, shape, bounds (lower and upper), and
scaling (res, res0, and res_ref) for the variables.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_expl_comp.ExplCompTestCase.test_for_feature_docs_list_vars_options
    :layout: interleave


*Write Full Array Values*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_inputs()` and :code:`list_outputs()` methods both have a :code:`print_arrays` option. The default is
False. When set to False, in the tabular display, only the value of the array norm will appear. The norm is
surrounded by vertical bars to indicate that it is a norm. When the option is set to True, there will also be a display
of full values of the array below the row. The format is affected by the values set with :code:`numpy.set_printoptions`.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_expl_comp.ExplCompTestCase.test_for_docs_array_list_vars_options
    :layout: interleave

*Listing Problem Variables*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:code:`Problem` has a method :code:`list_problem_vars` which prints out the values and metadata for design,
constraint, and objective variables.

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.problem.Problem.list_problem_vars
    :noindex:

The user can optionally print out a variety of metadata. In this example, all the metadata is printed. The
:code:`print_arrays` option is also set to true so that full array values are printed.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_problem.TestProblem.test_feature_list_problem_vars
    :layout: interleave

Commit message:

Modifications based on reviewer comments. Mostly moving to using a function for converting tags to sets

openmdao/docs/features/debugging/listing_variables.rst, after:

.. _listing-variables:

*****************
Listing Variables
*****************

When working with a model, it may sometimes be helpful to examine the input and
output variables. Several methods are provided for this purpose.

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.system.System.list_inputs
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.system.System.list_outputs
    :noindex:



Example
-------

In the following example, we create a model consisting of two instances of
:code:`ImplicitComponent` and an :code:`IndepVarComp`.

The implicit components are both instances of :code:`QuadraticComp`, defined
as shown here.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.QuadraticComp



These two components are placed in a :code:`Group` with inputs provided by
the :code:`IndepVarComp`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.setUp
    :layout: interleave


Usage
-----

*List Inputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_inputs()` method on a :code:`System` will display all the inputs
in execution order with their values. By default, the variable name and variable value
are displayed. Also by default, the variables are displayed as part of the System hierarchy.
Finally, the default is to display this information to :code:`'stdout'`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_inputs
    :layout: interleave


.. _list_outputs:

*List Outputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_outputs()` method will display all the outputs in execution order.
There are many options to this method, which we will explore below. For this example,
we will only display the value in addition to the name of the output variable.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_outputs
    :layout: interleave


*List Implicit or Explicit Outputs*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note that explicit and implicit outputs are listed separately.  If you are
only interested in seeing one or the other, you can exclude the ones you do
not wish to see via the :code:`implicit` and :code:`explicit` arguments.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_explicit_outputs
    :layout: interleave

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_implicit_outputs
    :layout: interleave


*Get List via Return Value*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Both of these methods also return the information in the form of a list.
You can disable the display of the information by setting the argument :code:`out_stream`
to :code:`None` and then access the data instead via the return value.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_return_value
    :layout: interleave


*List Names Only*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you just need the names of the variables, you can disable the
display of the values by setting the optional argument, :code:`values`, to `False`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_for_docs_list_no_values
    :layout: interleave

*List Names and Promoted Name*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want the names of the variables and their promoted name within the model,
you can enable the display of promoted names by setting the optional argument,
:code:`prom_name`, to `True`.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_prom_names
    :layout: interleave

*List Variables Filtered by Tags*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you add inputs and outputs to components, you can optionally set tags on the variables. These tags can then be
used to filter what variables are printed and returned by the :code:`System.list_inputs` and :code:`System.list_outputs`
methods. Each of those methods has an optional argument :code:`tags` for that purpose.

Here is a simple example to show you how this works. Imagine that a model-builder builds a model with some set of
variables they expect other non-model-builder users to vary. They want to classify the inputs into
two sets: "beginner" and "advanced". The model-builder would like to write some functions that query the model
for the set of `beginner` and `advanced` inputs and do some stuff with those lists (like make fancy formatted outputs or something).


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.test_suite.test_examples.test_betz_limit.TestBetzLimit.test_betz_with_var_tags
    :layout: interleave

Notice that if you only have one tag, you can set the argument :code:`tags` to a string. If you have
more than one tag, you use a list of strings.

This example showed how to add tags when using the :code:`add_input` and :code:`add_output` methods. You can also
add tags to :code:`IndepVarComp` and :code:`ExecComp` Components using code like this:

::

    comp = IndepVarComp('indep_var', tags='tag1')

::

    ec = om.ExecComp('y=x+z+1.',
                      x={'value': 1.0, 'units': 'm', 'tags': 'tagx'},
                      y={'units': 'm', 'tags': ['tagy','tagm']},
                      z={'value': 2.0, 'tags': 'tagz'},
                      ))

Note that outputs of :code:`IndepVarComp` are always tagged with :code:`indep_var_comp`.

*List Residuals Above a Tolerance*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In some cases, it might be convenient to only list variables whose residuals above a given tolerance. The
:code:`System.list_outputs` method provides an optional argument, :code:`residuals_tol` for this purpose.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_impl_comp.ListFeatureTestCase.test_list_residuals_with_tol
    :layout: interleave


*List Additional Variable Metadata*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_outputs()` method has many options to also display units, shape, bounds (lower and upper), and
scaling (res, res0, and res_ref) for the variables.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_expl_comp.ExplCompTestCase.test_for_feature_docs_list_vars_options
    :layout: interleave


*Write Full Array Values*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :code:`list_inputs()` and :code:`list_outputs()` methods both have a :code:`print_arrays` option. The default is
False. When set to False, in the tabular display, only the value of the array norm will appear. The norm is
surrounded by vertical bars to indicate that it is a norm. When the option is set to True, there will also be a display
of full values of the array below the row. The format is affected by the values set with :code:`numpy.set_printoptions`.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_expl_comp.ExplCompTestCase.test_for_docs_array_list_vars_options
    :layout: interleave

*Listing Problem Variables*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:code:`Problem` has a method :code:`list_problem_vars` which prints out the values and metadata for design,
constraint, and objective variables.

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.problem.Problem.list_problem_vars
    :noindex:

The user can optionally print out a variety of metadata. In this example, all the metadata is printed. The
:code:`print_arrays` option is also set to true so that full array values are printed.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_problem.TestProblem.test_feature_list_problem_vars
    :layout: interleave
