openmdao/docs/features/experimental/discrete_vars.rst, before:


.. _discrete-variables:

******************
Discrete Variables
******************

There may be times when it's necessary to pass variables that are not floats or float arrays
between components.  These variables can be declared as discrete variables.  A discrete variable
can be any picklable python object.

In explicit and implicit components, the user must call :code:`add_discrete_input` and
:code:`add_discrete_output` to declare discrete variables in the :code:`setup` method.
An example is given below that shows a component that has a discrete input along with
continuous inputs and outputs.


.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_discrete.DiscreteFeatureTestCase.test_feature_discrete
    :layout: interleave

Method Signatures
-----------------

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.component.Component.add_discrete_input
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.component.Component.add_discrete_output
    :noindex:


Discrete variables, like continuous ones, can be connected to each other using the :code:`connect`
function or by promoting an input and an output to the same name.  The type of the output
must be a valid subclass of the type of the input or the connection will raise an exception.

.. warning::
    If a model computes derivatives and any of those derivatives depend on the value of a discrete
    output variable, an exception will be raised.


If a component or group contains discrete variables, then the discrete inputs and/or outputs will
be passed to the relevant API functions.  In general, if nonlinear inputs are passed to a function,
then a discrete inputs arg will be added.  If nonlinear outputs are passed, then a discrete outputs
arg will be added.  The signatures of the affected functions are shown below:


.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute_jacvec_product
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute_partials
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.implicitcomponent.ImplicitComponent.guess_nonlinear
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.implicitcomponent.ImplicitComponent.linearize
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.group.Group.guess_nonlinear
    :noindex:

Commit message:

Added example of discrete var with implicit comp

openmdao/docs/features/experimental/discrete_vars.rst, after:


.. _discrete-variables:

******************
Discrete Variables
******************

There may be times when it's necessary to pass variables that are not floats or float arrays
between components.  These variables can be declared as discrete variables.  A discrete variable
can be any picklable python object.

In explicit and implicit components, the user must call :code:`add_discrete_input` and
:code:`add_discrete_output` to declare discrete variables in the :code:`setup` method.

Methods for Adding Discrete Variables
-------------------------------------

Here are the methods used to add discrete variables to components.

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.component.Component.add_discrete_input
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.component.Component.add_discrete_output
    :noindex:

Discrete Variable Considerations
--------------------------------

Discrete variables, like continuous ones, can be connected to each other using the :code:`connect`
function or by promoting an input and an output to the same name.  The type of the output
must be a valid subclass of the type of the input or the connection will raise an exception.

.. warning::
    If a model computes derivatives and any of those derivatives depend on the value of a discrete
    output variable, an exception will be raised.


If a component or group contains discrete variables, then the discrete inputs and/or outputs will
be passed to the relevant API functions.  In general, if nonlinear inputs are passed to a function,
then a discrete inputs argument will be added.  If nonlinear outputs are passed, then a discrete outputs
argument will be added.  The signatures of the affected functions are shown below:


.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute_jacvec_product
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.explicitcomponent.ExplicitComponent.compute_partials
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.implicitcomponent.ImplicitComponent.apply_nonlinear
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.implicitcomponent.ImplicitComponent.guess_nonlinear
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.implicitcomponent.ImplicitComponent.linearize
    :noindex:

.. automethod:: openmdao.core.group.Group.guess_nonlinear
    :noindex:


Discrete Variable Examples
--------------------------

An example is given below that shows an explicit component that has a discrete input along with
continuous inputs and outputs.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_discrete.DiscreteFeatureTestCase.test_feature_discrete
    :layout: interleave

Similarly, discrete variables can be added to implicit components.

.. embed-code::
    openmdao.core.tests.test_discrete.DiscreteFeatureTestCase.test_feature_discrete_implicit
    :layout: interleave
